

GIT CONFLICT
When 2 or more team members work on same files and they 
push their code and merge it remote/main or remote/master

Conflict happens because you did not pull the latest 
remote/master or remote/main changes

CONFLICTs happen and we need to resolve them.
1. If it is a small conflict, just resolve it inline
2. Pull the last changes to your local, merge it to your branch
This will create same conflicts in your local, resolve them and push the changes 
once again.

sprint: a period of time (2 weeks)
3-5 branches 
7-10 commits 
3-5 PRs
3-5 Pull changes 



Miscellaneous
1. Can I rename my branch? How to name branches?
    git branch 456347-dashboard-tests
    git checkout 456347-dashboard-tests
    git branch -m 456347-dashboard-smoke-tests

2. Can I switch to another branch without committing my changes?
Yes, on your local but it is recommended to commit your changes and then switch branch.

3. Can I merge my local branches?
Yes, first switch to your branch that you want to merge all the changes 
Then use below command to merge the other branch into current branch 
git merge <other-branch-name>

4. Can I switch to my team member's branch? 
  Yes.
  git fetch       -> it updates your local with all the remote branches 

5. Can I pull my team member's changes without PR into master?
  git fetch 
  git checkout origin/<branch-name>
  You can do changes in this branch 
  You can commit and push changes 

  
6. What happens if I forget the commit message?
VI - Visual Editor to add your commit message 
Insert mode: press i 
You can type your commit message while in insert mode and then exit
Exit insert mode: press ESC 
Command mode: press :

w   -> save 
q   -> quit 
wq  -> save & quit

7. Can I change the commit message before I push?
git commit --amend
git commit --amend -m "New commit message"

8. What is git stash and git stash apply?
Is a way to resolve conflicts that are obvious

1. I did some changes with a local branch 
2. Then someone updated remote master and I know if I push my code, it will create conflict 
3. Stash my changes: git stash 
4. Switch to master in your local 
5. Pull the changes from remote master: git pull 
6. Switch back your local branch (you stashed changes)
7. Merge local master changes into your local branch 
8. Retrieve stashed changes: git stash apply 
9. This is going to create conflicts 
10. Resolve them, and publish your branch

9. What is git fetch, git merge and git pull? Their differences?
There are 2 ways to update your local branches with remote branches 
Case of master branch 
1. Switch to master in your local and run 'git pull'
2. Switch to master in your local and run 'git fetch' to retrive all the changes without merging
And then run 'git merge origin/master' to update your local master with remote changes

10. What else I should know about GIT commands?
git merge vs git rebase


git log 
This command will show all the history of commits and branches